# Active-Sense-Deep-Learning-on-Smartphone-Sensors-to-Early-Diagnose-of-Diabetes
Nowadays, Smartphone with various extraordinary and notable sensors makes new invigorating open entryways for Data Mining and Machine Learning; other than makes another exploration field for Human Activity Recognition a.k.a. HAR. The HAR system has been applied to many areas, such as, step counting, health monitoring, abnormal activity recognition and so forth. Diagnosis of diseases is one of the unvisited applications which are up 'til now neglected application domains for HAR. It has been found that, physical activity is endorsed by physicians to patients suffering from Non-Insulin Dependent Diabetes Mellitus a.k.a. NIDDM, owing to the fact that it enhances susceptibility of insulin. Thus, the HAR system may allow the early diagnosis issue of Diabetes. That being so, activities entitled as walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, jogging and cycling which are associated to cardiovascular endurance, activities named drinking, eating, using toilet in order to record the log regarding of urination, activities such as fallen down facilitates the identification of physical weakness and activities such as genital itching, sitting, standing and lying enhances the facilitation regarding the identification of symptoms associated with diabetes type-2 or NIDDM, were subject matter to recognize. In the process of our work, we gathered sensors data from 10 subjects with an Android application, which was developed by us, to facilitate the Long Short-Term Memory a.k.a. LSTM to recognize entitled activities along with irrelevant activities to ensure the robustness of our system and we achieved utmost 98.4818% accuracy on test dataset. To know about how much time a diabetic patient spends in performing entitled symptomatic activities, we went to Chattogram Diabetic General Hospital and collected data from 97 diabetic patients. After collecting data from diabetic patients, we developed another Android application to collect sensors’ data from experimental subject in continuous manner. Thus, the data being gathered from the experimental subject performed over the most recent thirty days, we processed these data into pre-trained LSTM model and recognized the activities by prediction. In this way, we figured the mean time spent in executing of every activity from our experimental subject’s predicted activity log. We utilized this mean duration of performing symptomatic activities to obtained similarity qualities characterizing the similarity of our experimental subject with the diabetic symptoms from 97 patients. The similarity measure of 57.3916199% put the experimental subject into the class of moderate risk factor. As far as similarity measure, we have seen that our procedure of discovering the risk factor really shown higher performance. 
